[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We've been cooking rice
for hundreds of years, fact.
And this whole
grain dilemma that's
happening out there
at the moment,
oh, that's another conversation.
But I source my rice direct.
And when I mean direct, I'm
in Bali so it's easy for me.
And the storage of rice here
doesn't-- it's not a long time.
So we have very
good quality rice.
One thing that I've noticed
out of the hundreds of people
I've taught over the years
is how do you cook rice.
There's two ways, rice cooker--
genius.
Put it on, walk away.
Love it.
And in your rice cooker,
you can cook quinoa as well.
Fantastic.
Second way is with just
the traditional way,
right, with a pot on the
fire with some water.
So this is what I'll show you.
So the easiest way to do this--
I'll put this here.
The easiest way to measure
out how much rice you
want to how much
water you want is
to always know
that 1 cup of rice
is going to yield you enough
for about four people.
That's what we know, OK?
So say I pop that in there.
I am.
The next thing to know,
how much water do you use.
Now, you can measure your water.
So you used about--
I use about 1 and 1/2 cups
of rice to 2 cups of water.
This is red rice so I use
a little bit more water
because it's quite--
I don't know.
What is it?
It's nutty.
It's more-- it's
more rustic to it.
It's not like the white
variety, where it's quite soft
and fluffs up.
This is really chewy,
and earthy, and nutty.
It's really gorgeous.
Very similar to
brown, but it's red.
There's so many different
varieties out there.
There's green.
There's purple.
There's red.
There's black.
There's so many
different varieties.
They're the ones I know.
I've seen orange
rice before too.
So the trick is--
this is my trick.
This is what I was taught
in Papua New Guinea, where
I grew up with the
ladies cooking around me
throughout the years.
OK, so I put water in there.
Give the pot a little
bit of a shake.
Make sure the rice is settled
down to the bottom of the pot.
Now, what I'm looking
for-- so I'm making sure
that's an even layer of rice,
and the water is on top.
So my rice is here, and
now, my water is here.
I want to make sure that
the water comes just
above my line on my finger.
So it's anyone's finger with
any line, and it's just above.
OK?
This is what I was taught.
So I'm going to pop
my finger in there.
And I'm just touching the rice.
I'm not going all the
way down to the bottom.
I'm putting my finger just
to touch the rice, OK?
So I need some more
water than that.
Make sure it's all
even, the rice.
I'm going to pop my finger in.
It's just above.
Can you see that?
That is perfect.
So that's how much water
I need for that much rice.
So how much rice
should I put in?
It just depends on
how much you want.
I just freestyled it
and poured that in, OK?
And then I measured--
I freestyled it,
poured the rice in.
And I just put the water
and measured it up to here.
So I don't need to
measure anything.
That's just a rule of thumb.
The second thing is, I'm going
to bring this up to a boil.
It works every time, by the way.
I'm going to leave
the lid on, and I'm
going to bring it up to a boil.
And once it starts
boiling, I'm going
to let it boil
because it's red rice.
I'm going to let it boil
for a good 5 to 7 minutes.
And then I'm going to
turn it down to low,
and I'm going to pop the lid on.
And I'm going to let
it create a technique,
a cooking technique called
the absorption method.
And then I'm going to have
wonderful, fluffy rice.
So I've cooked some prior
because it takes quite a while.
Now, red rice does take a while.
It's not like the white variety,
where it's really quick.
Remember that.
It does take a while.
So this has been cooking.
Now, I've done the same thing.
I've just freestyled the rice
in there, just poured it in.
I've measured it just above
that first crease of my finger,
on my pointer finger.
I've brought it up to the
boil without the lid on,
and I've let it boil
for about seven minutes.
And then I've turned
it down to a low heat,
and popped the lid on,
and allowed it just
to create that
absorption method.
I've watched it just to
see where it's at, yeah?
Every now and then,
I've poked over.
And I go, wow, that's good.
That's still happening.
It smells seriously
nutty and quite--
it has quite a lot
of fragrance to it.
It's not like the white rice.
It's very, very different.
It fluffs up too.
It's great.
I mean, look at that.
It's just beautiful.
Let's have a look at
it in its raw state
so you get an idea of
how this is looking.
Yeah?
So look at that.
It's really, really rustic, eh?
Like, really-- it's not like--
it's not even like brown rice.
It's really interesting.
It's kind of longer as well.
And it's kind of
sticky, mm, nutty.
Oh, it's gorgeous.
It has a-- [SNIFFS] I can't
explain this fragrance.
It's just beautiful.
It has a slight
fragrant feeling to it,
like almost a sweetness
in the air, where
it's scented the studio out.
It's really gorgeous.
All right.
So we're ready to rock and roll.
You can get red rice from your
local supermarket these days.
I've seen it.
And if you're in
Bali, it's abundant.
It's everywhere.
All right, we're
going to need a bowl.
This rice salad
is very different.
And we're going to need a little
bowl to make the dressing.
So I'm going to make
the dressing first, just
to get that out of the way.
Right.
So we're going to need some
soy, some sesame seed oil.
A very different salad
dressing, this is beautiful.
Actually, this is copied
from my mate, Courtney,
who's the daughter I never
had's mother, Heather.
She made a gorgeous
rice salad once.
And I just made
it my way, but it
was a base of her rice salad.
So Heather, that rice salad
is, like, in my memory bank.
And this is passed
on now to the world,
but with a little bit of
difference-- more high plant,
different sources
that we've used here.
And a little bit of
apple cider vinegar.
All right, we're
going to need a whisk.
Oh, I love this kitchen.
Don't you feel good when
you're in the kitchen,
having everything around you?
You can totally do that.
What you do is you take
the cupboards, right?
You can take the doors
off the cupboards.
And then you've got it.
All right, so I need
some sesame seed oil.
Oh, sorry, some soy.
Some sesame seed oil.
A splash of apple cider vinegar.
Why?
Just for that acidity,
just a splash.
Maple syrup for that sweetness.
Perfect.
And add a little bit
of pepper to that.
OK.
Let's give that a little stir.
Have a taste.
Oh, yeah.
A bit more maple.
I love maple syrup.
It has that caramelizing flavor.
You can totally use
money if you want to.
That's no problem at all,
absolutely no problem,
or coconut sugar.
OK, let's put these babies back.
Now, our rice is
coming to the boil,
if you just want to
have a look at that.
It's just boiling nicely.
And I'm going to let
that boil for 7 minutes.
All right, let's set that aside.
Let's get our veggies.
All righty, got some cucumber.
Got a half a cucumber,
which I'm going to use up.
Now, I just want this chopped
into long pieces first.
And then we're going to
turn that into small dice.
Cucumber, it just adds that
freshness to this salad.
All right, and turning
it to the side,
I'm just smashing out
those little squares.
Smashing out those
little squares--
that's something
my son would say.
OK, straight into your bowl.
Same with the carrot.
Now, I washed this carrot.
I'm not going to peel it.
That's they beauty of
organic food, yeah?
It has all those
nutrients in there.
So I'm just going to cut
them long ways like this.
A sharp knife, that'll get
that glide right through.
Blunt knife, you'll struggle.
OK, once again, same
thing as the cucumber.
Perfect.
All right, let's pop this here.
Line them up.
Do what you can handle.
That's a bit too much, Cynthia.
Sometimes I get carried away.
Push that to the side.
All right, nice little
squares into the same bowl
with the cucumber.
Now, I've got a capsicum.
I want to use this bit, yeah?
Throw that bit away.
Keep those seeds for
planting or put them
in the compost bin, either way,
back into where they came from.
All right, I'm just going to
take this out because I just--
for aesthetic reasons.
I just don't want it there.
OK, all right.
Once again, long strips.
It's almost a baton size,
bigger than a julienne.
Perfect.
OK.
Into our bowl.
I want some spring onions.
These are just local
little spring onions.
Look at the base of these.
They're just beautiful.
I'm just going to cut
those roots off just there.
I'm going to cut it in half.
Now we cut it in half again.
You're going to do
what you can handle.
I'm going to run
my knife through.
OK, just cutting these finely,
as fine as you can get them.
No stress if you
can't get them fine.
All right, into here.
Oh.
OK, now I want some parsley,
some flat leaf parsley actually
and not the curly leaf variety,
just because I have it.
And it's nice.
It's refreshing.
All right, I'm going
to use these stalks.
I'm just going to
cut those off there.
Once again, the same deal--
just scrunching it up and
running my knife through.
As fine as you can get it
but not too fine, yeah?
We don't want a mush.
We want a bit of
texture in this.
Beautiful.
Into our bowl.
Now, bringing it in.
All right, salt and
peppering these vegetables,
salt and peppering--
[LAUGHS]
Oh, hilarious.
We just want to pull
out these flavors here.
Oh, yeah, look at that.
Yum, yum, yum.
Oh, this is beautiful,
truly beautiful.
OK, now it's time
to add our rice.
Perfectly cooked through
the finger method of--
no, perfectly cooked through
the one finger crease
method of glory.
All right, now, we
just want to toss this
through those
veggies, just quickly,
so it just incorporates.
And now, we're going to drizzle
this dressing on just over it.
It doesn't feel like
there's a lot of dressing
there, hey, for this quantity.
But really, it's enough.
It's beautiful.
Just tossing it through,
getting that dressing,
coating that rice.
All right, let's have a little
taste, see where we're at.
Oh, yeah.
Mate, for that amount of
dressing with all this,
ah, that's perfect, perfect.
Sometimes I even wonder, when
I come up with these recipes,
if it's enough.
And then I redo the recipe
or rehash the recipe,
and I go, wow, it's enough.
OK.
Pop that aside.
Let's get a lovely plate, just
clean off this board a bit.
A bit of a chef's clean.
All right.
Let's put a lovely plate here.
We've got the crew upstairs.
They're going to be wanting
some food in a minute.
So we'll take this little
platter up to them.
Oh, yeah.
Next thing I want to add to this
is some sunflower seeds, just
more plant, you know?
And I want to add some
pumpkin seeds as well, just
for that contrast in color.
There we go, a
beautiful red rice
salad with a twist of difference
from Heather's original recipe
to more a whole
foods version that
is scrumptious, fulfilling.
And the nuttiness of this
red rice is extraordinary.
You are going to love it.
It's amazing.
If you can't get
red rice, use brown.
brown rice, use white.
This is really good.
[LAUGHS]
Genius.
Enough for a beautiful barbecue
with friends on a Sunday
or just a part of a dinner, you
know, just one part of dinner.
And that's what
we're doing here.
I'm not trying to make
you into a vegetarian.
I'm not trying to turn you
into a gorilla, a plant eater.
What I'm trying to do is
facilitate some creativity
with you so you can just amp
up some nutrients in your diet.
And this is one way
to do it, just adding
these dishes to your meals.
[CLAPS]
Well done, red rice.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And stop, and action.
Voila!
Is it Viola or wall?
Walla.
Is it walla?
>> Voila.
>> Valla.
Yeah.
[TRILLS TONGUE]
Pamajama?
>> Parmigiana.
>> Jana, Parmigiana.
Stop it.
All right, love.
Shh!
Quiet!